This is a TODO list for the Delfador's Memoirs campaign
-------------------------------------------------------

Art issues
----------

See this forum thread: http://www.wesnoth.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=24805

WML issues
----------

Bad guys need to be unshrouded during dialog in 20 and 21.

Redo recruit list in 20?

Other
-----
Finish the walkthrough and put it on the wiki.

ShadowMaster's review
---------------------
02:29 <Shadow_Master> Chantal does a funny MUF at the end of Return of Trouble

Daniel Franke's review
----------------------
I was playing on Hard.  I've attached an archive of all my replays.

First off, bugs, besides those I've mentioned on IRC:

* In "Terror at the Ford", the "undeads" event fires too soon, before
  any undead units are actually visible.

Onward to balance:

By and large, I found this a very easy campaign, but with two
rather-challenging scenarios and two excessively difficult ones.
Except where noted, I won every scenario on my first attempt.

* Leollyn: Leollyn kept winning Darwin awards after I had finished
  off most of the enemy troops.  Give him a bit of starting gold.
  Or better yet, provide a paved route between my keep and his so
  that I can send some horsemen to protect him.

* Houses of the Dead: With some unlucky rolls, it's rather easy for
  Delfador to get killed after picking up the staff.  Having no
  other units to protect him, there's not much to be done about it
  besides parking him on a mountain and hoping for the best.

* The Gate Between Worlds: This scenario is, as best I can tell,
  impossible to win on Hard.  The walkthrough's recommended approach is
  suicidal, and the attached replay is the result of massive savescumming
  during the final two turns.  I didn't get my free recall since none
  of my AI allies survived the previous scenario, so I guess that didn't
  help any, but I'd recommend reducing the enemy gold setting to 160
  on Normal and 200 on Hard.

* Terror at the Ford of Parthyn: This scenario has too many surprises in
  it.  It's trivial to beat if you know what to expect, and unfair if
  you don't.  On my first try, I had to restart after getting ripped to
  shreds early on by the two village ambushes.  On my second, I divided
  my forces into two groups of about equal size to fight the orcs and
  the undead, and found that this was a mistake, because I got a
  considerable number of human reinforcements, but they were all
  positioned to fight the undead rather than the orcs.  As a result, I
  barely prevailed against the orcs, while the undead were a pushover.
  Had I instead split my forces 2:1 with the majority heading west, this
  would have gone much more easily.

  Move the school of mages a little closer if they're intended to be
  useful.  The fight was over by the time they got to the ford.

* The Return of Trouble: This was a tough scenario and one of my
  favorites.  I beat it on my third try after deciding to recruit
  only L2s.

* Save the King: The AI settings here were annoying.  Garard's troops
  easily wiped out the two southern armies without any need for my
  help, but then the [avoid] directive prevented them from finishing
  off the purple leader.  This left me to drag my army all the way
  across the map in order to finish off one L2, after everyone else
  was already dead.

* The Portal of Doom: This level is too hard.  I won on my 6th try, with
  Delfador as my only surviving unit, and even then only due to some
  extremely lucky rolls.  I don't think it's possible to win with only
  average luck.  Having to fight L3 rather than L2 units (like on
  normal) makes a night-and-day difference.  Just leave it at L2; having
  to fight 600 rather than 400 gold worth of undead will still be plenty
  difficult.

* Prince of Wesnoth: This was a bit tricky, because I went into it broke,
  so had to fight the whole enemy army with five recalls.  I pulled it
  off on my third attempt by turtling south of the lake.  Timing is a
  little bit tight.

I've only highlighted the most difficult scenarios here, but
by-and-large I disagree with reclassifying this as an intermediate
campaign.  If you make my suggested tweaks to Gate Between Worlds
and Portal of Doom, then I think it'll end up somewhat easier than
HttT.


Finally, a couple style/grammar nitpicks:

* Overture: Delfador's closing "Let's go!" is a bit cheesy and breaks
  the mood.  Replace it with something more formal or just get rid of
  it.

* This Valley Belongs to Me: "fully trained" needs a hyphen.  "I hope
  however" needs a comma.

* Council in Weldyn: "They need reminding that Wesnoth is too hot for
  them": is this an archaism that I've never heard before?  I think of
  this as ghetto slang.
