We have released 1.0 of Battle for Wesnoth because we think it is a
solid game that is great fun to play.  In extensive testing the game has
been well behaved for several hundred serious testers, and nearly half a
million copies of various development versions have been downloaded over
the two years of development.

Unfortunately, some bugs do remain: here is a list of the main ones we
are aware of.  See http://bugs.wesnoth.org/ for the list of open issues,
and http://changelog.wesnoth.org/ for the status of development.


SPECIFIC ISSUES

9982, 10154, 14533: some hotkeys are broken on international keyboards

The default hotkey for command mode is "shift-;" which is ":" on many
keyboard layouts.  If you have a keyboard layout where ";" is only
available as a shifted key (eg. German), it is not possible to generate
a "shift-;" keystroke.  Workaround: redefine the hotkey in the game
preferences to another key.  You can also work around other keys like
"/" not being available, but hotkeys 1-7 are currently hardcoded and
therefore not accessible eg. for French keyboard layouts.

14379: MP server messages are not translatable

The multiplayer server sends messages to game clients in English.  We
currently have no way for these messages to be translated into your
local language.

10962: a unit does not level up in a replay if that is the last action

Sometimes one of your units will kill the last enemy leader and not only
win the scenario, but also receive enough experience points that it
levels up.  Unfortunately, a replay of such a game will not show the
unit advancing.

11966: the Map Editor does not allow the language to be changed

The Map Editor uses the language that the game was last played in.  If
you want to use another language in the editor, change it in the game,
and then start the editor.

12169: chat only accepts ASCII characters

Although the game uses UTF-8 to represent international characters,
there is no way to input such characters.  This is due to the SDL
library that we use, which does not support UTF-8 input.

12722: hitpoint update delay can be very long

If you play or replay a custom scenario where units can sustain large
amounts of damage, the delay in showing the lost hitpoints may become
very long.  A workaround is to use accelerated mode.

13391: at night, it can be difficult to distinguish selected castle hexes

On some systems, the shade of grey used for castle hexes at night are
the same or very close to the colour used for highlighted castle hexes.
It might therefore not be possible to tell which of the castle hexes are
highlighted, and which are not.

13598: help is not always available

You need to be playing for help to be available.  Currently there is no
way to call up the help system from the title screen.  Further, by
design, only those parts of the game that you have come across when
playing will be available in the help system.  If you have not seen an
Ancient Lich, you will not see its description in help until you do.

13875: downloaded campaigns can't be deleted

There is no way in the game to delete campaigns that you have downloaded
but don't want anymore.  You can remove them by removing the campaign
files.  These are stored in different places depending on your operating
system and installation type.

13895: in Northern Outpost one can undo searching the villages

In the Eastern Invasion Campaign, the Northern Outpost scenario requires
you to search several villages.  It is possible to undo these moves and
cheat.  We trust you will be responsible.

13981: the game uses lots of memory

There may be some memory leaks in the code.  However, we have not been
able to find any.  The game does use lots of memory, since it keeps
track of lots of data about the units in each scenario.  If the game
uses too much memory, try saving, quitting and restarting the game and
loading your saved game.  If you are a C++ programmer and find a
confirmed memory leak, please notify the developers.

13992: changing the language may not work properly

On Windows and some of the Mac OS X builds, changing to another language
may not properly update text that has already been shown, although text
that has not yet been shown will be displayed in the new language.  The
workaround is to restart the game.

14099: some text dialogs are truncated

The text in some dialogs may be truncated to fit into a dialog box.
This is especially noticeable with some of the translations.

14287: campaign overview should show versions

In the Campaign screen, the campaign versions are not shown.  Some
campaigns have version numbers in their descriptions, but not all do.

7544, 9893, 10272, 10703, 11170, 12132, 14083, 14225, 14306, 14307, 14520:
limitations with the keyboard or mouse

In some situations hotkeys and menu items are not available when they
really should be.  For instance, the hotkeys are not available at the
main menu, or inside a menu that has been selected with the mouse.  When
replaying a game, Escape is one of the few hotkeys available.


GENERAL

There are also several minor glitches with screen redrawing, like with
units that have been set to automove, and with teleportation.  Usually
these go away when the screen is next refreshed completely, for instance
on the next turn.

Finally, some explanations in the help or the tutorial are less clear
than they could be, and a few typos still exist in the game text.  The
English (GB) translation should be free of these glitches.


WORKING AS DESIGNED

The game sometimes behaves differently to what some people expect.  The
following are some of the most frequently queried issues: these are
deliberate, and not considered bugs.

11364: unit description of modified unit shows unmodified stats

In some scenarios, units can obtain items that change their statistics.
The unit description will always show the statistics of the unmodified
unit type, and will not include modifications for specific units.

11829: units are slowed for different amounts of time

A unit can be slowed in combat.  A unit that is slowed when defending
will stay slowed until its next turn is over.  This can mean it is
slowed for as long as it takes for one, two or several other sides to
finish their turns.  However, units that are slowed when attacking
another unit will only be slowed during that turn.  This is intentional.

13313: subdirectories are not shown in save and load dialogs

Saved games are stored in one directory or folder.

