This file is here to allow devs to easily add stuff in the release
notes for the next release, it allows easy syncing with the release
team, since you don't have to be around when the release takes
place...

Just dump whatever you want to have mentioned in the release notes here. Please
take care that it is in a way that allows copy&paste to the release notes. That
is making sure that spelling/grammer/whatever is usable and that you are using
 complete sentences, not just single words.

The release team should empty this file after each release.

***

There are quite some changes on the GUI front and things should start to
stabilise now. If you see bugs which should be fixed before 1.6 please report
them in the bug tracker.

* titlescreen/landscapebattlefield.jpg -> story/landscape-battlefield.jpg
* titlescreen/landscapebridge.jpg -> story/landscape-bridge.jpg
* titlescreen/landscapecastle.jpg -> story/landscape-castle.jpg

***

This release contains an important security update, fixing a
vulnerability that could allow third-party content (such as campaigns
downloaded from the add-on server) to execute arbitrary code with user
account privileges.  See bug #31048 for details.  All content
currently on the official add-on server has been inspected to confirm
that none of it exploits this vulnerability, and the add-on server
itself has been patched to ensure that exploits can no longer be
uploaded.  Therefore, users of previous versions of Battle for Wesnoth
who have received user-made content through the official add-on server
and no other distribution channel need not fear that their system has
been compromised.

CVE-2009-0367 has been assigned to this vulnerability and may provide
further information.


This release is the first 1.6 release candidate, it means that no further 
compatibility-breaking changes are expected. We invite all content providers,
wesnoth related external sites and anybody concerned to test compatibility 
with this release. We also encourage players to try this release heavily.
Now is the time to report all the bugs that are obvious to you but that we 
never heard of.

The message dialog got overhauled with some new images, these are placeholders.
They will be polished before 1.6.
