Main issues with UtBS were identified by fabi in 
https://mail.gna.org/public/wesnoth-dev/2008-11/msg00007.html
I have attached to each one a proposed disposition.

- In scenario 2 units take damage from dehydration during daytime,
  strange behaviour of this have been reported.  loonycyborg
  clarified that dehydration interacts badly with poison.

  Disposition: I will fix this, if necessary by reverting to the
  old 1.4 behavior of dehydration, which worked.

- The masked assassin (the brother of Kaleh) can appear in place of
  the players characters and they die (even campaign critical ones).

  Disposition: I will fix it.

- A magical berserker creature the player can get during the campaign
  (scenario 4) dies too easily.

  Disposition: I will fix it.  I don't experct this to be difficult.

- The frost sword doesn't work like expected (I had no look at this,
  maybe the player who reported this had no idea about Wesnoth's
  damage types)

  Disposition: I will investigate and fix if necessary.

- Choosing the trolls as allies is too hard.

  Disposition: I will fix it.

- The whole campaign seems to be unbalanced by being too easy in general.

  Disposition: I will investigate and fix as necessary.

- The unit graphics of the desert elves are very outdated. They are
  based on the mainline elves found in Wesnoth 1.0 and lack the team
  colourisation. They look strange compared to the enemies that have
  current mainline quality. An attempt to produce new graphics has
  started there:
  http://www.wesnoth.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=19613
  But the thread did not show any progress for a while now.

  Disposition: While this should be fixed, I don't think it's a release
  blocker.  Considering the story context, the odd appearance of the 
  Quenoth elves is almost an asset. I encourage Jetrel to finish the
  TC pass on them he was planning.

- Many more wml bugs.

  Disposition: I will investigate during playtesting.

My to-do items:

- Refactor death macros to remove tricky conditionality.
